
July 2016

Coventry University

Faculty of Engineering, Environment and Computing

# 321COM Rapid Application Development

Instructions to candidates

Time Allowed: 2 hours 00 minutes

This is a Closed Book examination

Answer:

All questions

The total number of questions in this paper: 4

Each question is worth 25 marks.

Start each question on a new page and carefully identify your answers with the correct question number

For this examination you will be supplied with the following

1 Answer Book(s)

You must hand this question paper in at the end of the examination.

Answer all questions

----

1. Cloud services are becoming increasingly popular with organisations.
    1. Explain using examples what is meant by the **cloud**. You should compare it to alternatives explaining its pros and cons. _(7 marks)_
    2. Using examples explain the acronym **SaaS** and describe its benefits _(6 marks)_
    3. Using examples explain the acronym **PaaS** and describe its benefits. _(6 marks)_
    4. Using examples explain the acronym **IaaS** and describe its benefits _(6 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

2. Many online systems are made available through a **public API**.
    1. Explain the _purpose_ of an API and give examples. _(9 marks)_
    2. Describe how an API supports _CRUD operations_ giving concrete examples to support your explanation. _(8 marks)_
    3. Explain the difference between a **resource** and a **collection** giving examples of both. _(4 marks)_
    4. Web APIs deliver their content using the _JSON format_. Using an example explain its key features and advantages over the use of XML. _(4 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

3. Many software development companies are moving from a 'traditional' approach to embrace a more agile approach. This encompasses a number of important concepts.
    1. Explain what is meant by agile. _(4 marks)_
    2. Explain the following concepts and explain where they would typically be used: _(16 marks)_
        1. incremental development
        2. timeboxing
        3. MoSCoW Rules
        4. Minimum viable product
    3. Describe some of the online tools you can use to support agile development and explain how they help the process. _(5 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

4. Modern programming methodologies make extensive use of automated testing.
    1. Explain the Test-Driven Development paradigm showing the benefits of adoption. _(9 marks)_
    2. Explain the purpose of Unit Testing, how it is used and its benefits giving clear examples. _(8 marks)_
    3. Explain the purpose of Acceptance Testing, its role and benefits giving examples. _(8 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)