
May 2016

Coventry University

Faculty of Engineering, Environment and Computing

# 321COM Rapid Application Development

Instructions to candidates

Time Allowed: 2 hours 00 minutes

This is a Closed Book examination

Answer: All questions

The total number of questions in this paper: 4

Each question is worth 25 marks.

Start each question on a new page and carefully identify your answers with the correct question number.

For this examination you will be supplied with the following

1 Answer Book(s)

You must hand this question paper in at the end of the examination

----

1. The **pets** and **cattle** metaphor is often used to describe two contrasting service models used when configuring online services.
    1. describe three features of a _pet_ service. _(6 marks)_
    2. describe three features of a _cattle_ service. _(6 marks)_
    3. explain the purpose of clustering and how it can be used to improve server reliability. _(6 marks)_
    4. explain the role of a load-balancer. _(7 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

2. In 1998 Eric Brewer proposed the **CAP theorem** to explain limitations in database technologies and how this relates to the **ACID principles**.
    1. explain the three guarantees denoted by the CAP acronym. _(9 marks)_
    2. explain the term ACID in terms of database technologies. _(4 marks)_
    3. describe the limitations in traditional relational databases with reference to the CAP theorem. _(4 marks)_
    4. describe the limitations in NoSQL Document Databases with reference to the CAP theorem. _(4 marks)_
    5. explain why the CAP theorem is misleading. _(4 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

3. When working on a project involving the writing of computer programs most programmers use a form of version control.
    1. give an example of a version control tool and explain its purpose. _(4 marks)_
    2. explain the following concepts and explain where they would typically be used. _(16 marks)_:
        1. branching and merging
        2. adding and committing
        3. pushing and pulling
        4. forking and merging
    3. describe the tools available to track the code changes in a project. _(5 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

4. Modern programming frameworks make use of common **design patterns**.
    1. explain the purpose of design patterns and why these are useful to software developers. _(8 marks)_
    2. explain with the aid of a suitably labelled diagram the three components in the Model-View-Controller design pattern and how this helps in the development of code that is easy to maintain. _(12 marks)_
    3. briefly describe two other design patterns and explain their usage. _(5 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----