
# July 2017

Coventry University

Faculty of Engineering, Environment and Computing

# 302CEM Agile Development

Instructions to candidates

Time allowed: 2 Hours 0 minutes

Answer: All Questions

 The total number of questions in this paper: 4

All questions carry equal marks

Start each question on a new page and carefully identify your answers with the correct question number

For this examination you will be supplied with the following:

1 Answer Book

You must hand this question paper in at the end of the examination

-----

Questions
Answer all questions in this section
1. Agile development is seen as an alternative to traditional waterfall-style project
management when managing risks in a project. For each of the following, compare and evaluate these two approaches.
    1. Schedule slips _(5 marks)_
    2. Business is misunderstood _(5 marks)_
    3. Business changes _(5 marks)_
    4. The project is suddenly cancelled! _(5 marks)_
    5. The software is full of bugs _(5 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----
2. Scrum is an agile way to manage a project.
    1. Evaluate the following _(12 marks)_:
        1. Product Backlog
        2. MoSCow Rules
        3. Product Sprint
    2. Many teams use a Kanban board. Evaluate how these can be used to improve productivity _(9 marks)_
    3. Compare the process of a Daily Stand-Up to traditional meeting styles _(4 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

3. Modern agile teams often integrate Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) into their workflow.
    1. Compare Continuous Integration with alternative approaches _(9 marks)_
    2. Compare and contrast Continuous Deployment with alternative approaches _(9 marks)_
    3. Appraise the challenges faced by organisations when adopting CI and CD _(7 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

4. At the core of agile development is the 'Agile Manifesto'. Appraise the following:
    1. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools _(7 marks)_
    2. Working software over comprehensive documentation _(6 marks)_
    3. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation _(6 marks)_
    4. Responding to change over following a plan _(6 marks)_

(Total 25 marks)

----

# Solutions

1. Agile development
    1. Any 2 _(3 marks for first and 2 for second)_:
        - Short release cycles
        - Burn-down charts / burn rate
    2. Any 2 _(3 marks for first and 2 for second)_:
        - Customer is part of the team
        - User stories define business outcomes
        - Regular feedback by customer
    3. Any 2 _(3 marks for first and 2 for second)_:
        - Short release cycles minimises wasted time
        - Customer is part of the team
    4. Any 2 _(3 marks for first and 2 for second)_:
        - Minimum viable product
        - Iterative development delivers working code each time
    5. Any 2 _(3 marks for first and 2 for second)_:
        - BDD / Acceptance testing defines automated suite to measure against customer requirements
        - TDD / Unit testing suite to automatically check for bugs in code modules
        - Regression testing keeps checking code that worked reviously.
        - Agile avoids false feature-rich which reduces the amount of code

----

2. Scrum is an agile way to manage a project.
    1. Evaluate the following:
        1. Any 2 of the following _(2 marks each)_:
            - List of things that need to be done / captures system requirements
            - Anyone in the team can add to this list
            - List items should be user stories
            - Can also include non-functional requirements such as improving performance or fixing bugs
            - The product owner prioritises these after consultation with the rest of the team
            - Priorities are regularly adjusted based on current business needs
        2. User stories fit into four different priority groups _(1 mark for each)_:
            - Must Have: the top items will be essential
            - Should Have: next there will be the important but lower priority tasks
            - Could Have: next are the low priority features that will be completed eventually
            - Would Be Nice: the tasks at the bottom may never be implemented
        3. Any 2 of the following _(6 marks each)_:
            - A time-based unit of development / Restricted to a specific duration (timeboxed)
            - Duration of each sprint determined by team dynamics
            - Each sprint results in the delivery of working code
    2. Any 3 from the following _(3 marks each)_:
        - Keeps track of tasks in a visual manner
        - Tasks assigned to specific developer forces ownership
        - Each member of team knows what they need to achieve
        - Easy to identify issues early and resolve
        - Live document (information radiator)
    3. Any 2 of the following _(2 marks each)_:
        - Entire team must be present
        - Short time-box
        - Each member must contribute
        - Clearly defined set of questions/agenda

----

3. Modern agile teams often integrate Continuous Integration and
Continuous Deployment into their workflow.
    1. Any 3 from the following _(3 marks each)_. For each point, 2 marks for description of CI and 1 for comparison with alternative:
        - All code goes into a central repository which auto builds test environment / test environment is built locally on dev machines.
        - All builds are automated / automated tests are triggered manually.
        - All code is built and tested every time code is pushed / tests are run before code is committed and pushed.
        - Integration takes place every push / Manual process.
        - Any errors are reported / All errors are captured by tests run locally.
    2. Any 3 from the following (3 marks each). For each point, 2 marks for description of CD and 1 for comparison with alternative:
        - The acceptance tests define the product requirements / there may be other requirements not defined in the test suite.
        - If all tests pass the user story has been implemented / decision is taken by dev team.
        - Next step is to deploy to the live server automatically / process triggered by dev team manually.
        - This should be triggered automatically if tests pass / decision taken by dev team based on other factors.
    3. _(3 marks for first point then 2 points for second and third points)_:
        - Needs team to fully adopt TDD/BDD
        - Organisational: need to agree control and workflow
        - Process: sign-off processes can be convoluted and time consuming
        - Technical: requires expertise in many different tools and techniques

----

4. At the core of agile development is the ‘Agile Manifesto’. Appraise the
following:
    1. Any 3 of the italicised concepts _(3 marks for first and 2 marks for others)_:
        - This first value places its emphasis on _teamwork_ and _communication_.
        - _Teams of people_ build software systems, _not tools_. And to do that they need to work together effectively through productive interactions.
    2. Any 3 of the underlined concepts (2 marks each):
        - Take the time to develop software that is _clear_, _self-explanatory_, and caters to the tasks that _users need_ to get done.
    3. Any 3 of the underlined concepts (2 marks each):
        - Only your customers can tell you _what they want_, and it’s _your job to listen_. Successful development teams _work closely with their customers_ and _communicate with them frequently_.
    4. Any 3 of the underlined concepts (2 marks each):
        - _Change is the reality_ of software development – technology changes, business trends change, customers change. There is _nothing wrong with a project plan_ – however, it _must be malleable_. There must be room to _allow for change_ and to _respond to it_ otherwise your plan quickly becomes obsolete.